Aim:
To study the MQTT Protocol and examine the components of MQTT protocol.
Introduction:
MQTT stands for Message Queuing Telemetry Transport. It is an extremely lightweight
and publish-subscribe messaging transport protocol. This protocol is useful for the connection
with the remote location where the bandwidth is a premium. It is a publish and subscribe
system where we can publish and receive the messages as a client. It makes it easy for
communication between multiple devices. It is a simple messaging protocol designed for the
constrained devices and with low bandwidth, so it's a perfect solution for the internet of
things applications.
Characteristics of MQTT
o It is a machine-to-machine protocol, i.e., it provides communication between the
devices.
o It is designed as a simple and lightweight messaging protocol that uses a
publish/subscribe system to exchange the information between the client and the
server.
o It does not require that both the client and the server establish a connection at the
same time.
o It provides faster data transmission, like how WhatsApp/messenger provides a faster
delivery. It's a real-time messaging protocol.
o It allows the clients to subscribe to the narrow selection of topics so that they can
receive the information they are looking for.
Components of MQTT
o Message
o Client
o Server or Broker
o TOPIC
Message
The message is the data that is carried out by the protocol across the network for the
application. When the message is transmitted over the network, then the message contains the
following parameters:
1. Payload data
2. Quality of Service (QoS)
3. Collection of Properties
4. Topic Name
Client
In MQTT, the subscriber and publisher are the two roles of a client. The clients subscribe to
the topics to publish and receive messages.
Publish: When the client sends the data to the server, then we call this operation as a publish.
Subscribe: When the client receives the data from the server, then we call this operation a
subscription.
Server
The device or a program that allows the client to publish the messages and subscribe to the
messages. A server accepts the network connection from the client, accepts the messages
from the client, processes the subscribe and unsubscribe requests, forwards the application
messages to the client, and closes the network connection from the client.
TOPIC
The label provided to the message is checked against the subscription known by the server is
known as TOPIC.
MQTT Message Format
The MQTT uses the command and the command acknowledgment format, which means that
each command has an associated acknowledgment.
MQTT Packet Structure
The MQTT message format consists of 2 bytes fixed header, which is present in all the
MQTT packets. The second field is a variable header, which is not always present. The third
field is a payload, which is also not always present. The payload field basically contains the
data which is being sent.
Conclusion:
Thus,MQTT protocol and its components are studied and examined.
