EXERCISE 2
Study about Industrial Revolution and Cyber physical system opportunities
and challenges.
A cyber-physical system (CPS) or intelligent system is a computer
system in which a mechanism is controlled or monitored by computerbased algorithms. In cyber-physical systems, physical and software components
are deeply intertwined, able to operate on different spatial and temporal scales,
exhibit multiple and distinct behavioral modalities, and interact with each other in
ways that change with context.CPS involves transdisciplinary approaches, merging
theory of cybernetics, mechatronics, design and process science. The process
control is often referred to as embedded systems. In embedded systems, the
emphasis tends to be more on the computational elements, and less on an intense
link between the computational and physical elements. CPS is also similar to
the Internet of Things (IoT), sharing the same basic architecture; nevertheless, CPS
presents a higher combination and coordination between physical and
computational elements.
Examples of CPS include smart grid, autonomous
automobile systems, medical monitoring, industrial control
systems, robotics systems, and automatic pilot avionics.Precursors of cyberphysical systems can be found in areas as diverse
as aerospace, automotive, chemical processes, civil infrastructure,
energy, healthcare, manufacturing, transportation, entertainment, and consumer
appliances.
INDUSTRY 4.0
Industry 4.0 refers to the fourth industrial revolution, although it is concerned with
areas that are not usually classified as industry applications in their own right, such
as smart cities
Fourth Industrial Revolution
The first industrial revolution came with the advent of mechanisation, steam power
and water power.This was followed by the second industrial revolution, which
revolved around mass production and assembly lines using electricity.The third
industrial revolution came with electronics, I.T. systems and automation, which led
to the fourth industrial revolution that is associated with cyber physical systems.
Figure 1: Industry 4.0
Industry 4.0 Technologies
Generally-speaking, Industry 4.0 describes the growing trend towards automation
and data exchange in technology and processes within the manufacturing industry,
including:
 The internet of things (IoT)
 The industrial internet of things (IIoT)
 Cyber-physical systems (CPS)
 Smart manufacture
 Smart factories
 Cloud computing
 Cognitive computing
 Artificial intelligence
This automation creates a manufacturing system whereby machines in factories are
augmented with wireless connectivity and sensors to monitor and visualise an
entire production process and make autonomous decisions.
Wireless connectivity and the augmentation of machines will be greatly advanced
with the full roll out of 5G. This will provide faster response times, allowing for
near real time communication between systems.
The fourth industrial revolution also relates to digital twin technologies. These
digital technologies can create virtual versions of real-world installations,
processes and applications. These can then be robustly tested to make costeffective decentralised decisions.
These virtual copies can then be created in the real world and linked, via the
internet of things, allowing for cyber-physical systems to communicate and
cooperate with each other and human staff to create a joined up real time data
exchange and automation process for Industry 4.0 manufacturing.
This automation includes interconnectivity between processes, information
transparency and technical assistance for decentralised decisions.
In short, this should allow for digital transformation. This will allow for automated
and autonomous manufacturing with joined-up systems that can cooperate with
each other.
The technology will help solve problems and track processes, while also increasing
productivity.
Example of the Industry 4.0 Revolution
Industry 4.0 has already been demonstrated through business models such as
offline programming and adaptive control for arc welding, taking the process from
product design through simulation and onto the shop floor for production.
There are also examples of businesses implementing Industry 4.0 in automotive
manufacture and a variety of smart factories across the world.
Figure 2: Industry 4.0 Revolution
A challenge in the development of embedded and cyber-physical systems is the
large differences in the design practice between the various engineering disciplines
involved, such as software and mechanical engineering. Additionally, as of today
there is no "language" in terms of design practice that is common to all the
involved disciplines in CPS. Today, in a marketplace where rapid innovation is
assumed to be essential, engineers from all disciplines need to be able to explore
system designs collaboratively, allocating responsibilities to software and physical
elements, and analyzing trade-offs between them. Recent advances show that
coupling disciplines by using co-simulation will allow disciplines to cooperate
without enforcing new tools or design methods. Results from the MODELISAR
project show that this approach is viable by proposing a new standard for cosimulation in the form of the Functional Mock-up Interface.
CYBER PHYSICAL SYSTEM OPPORTUNITIES
The science of CPS has the capability to impact technology in a wide
variety of industries and organizations, and CPS allows us to imagine, create,
develop, refine and perpetuate smart systems in fields that result in the betterment
of industries, communities and individuals.
Regarding the benefits of cyber-physical systems technology, according to
the Information Technology Laboratory: “The ability to design and build
successful cyber-physical systems will address many national priorities in ways
that traditional computer science cannot in areas as diverse as aerospace,
automotive, energy, disaster response, health care, manufacturing and city
management. Standards, protocols and test methods that support the discovery,
interoperability and composition of components used to build these cyber physical
systems will promote innovation, improve economic viability at the same time
allowing systems to become more efficient and reduce resource-use.”
In other words, the immeasurable benefits of cyber-physical systems is the
acceleration of technological progress — progress that positively impacts countless
fields, organizations and ultimately, the lives of others.
Here are just a few ways in which the benefits of CPS technology have impacted
different industries:
Smart city management
TechTarget defines a smart city as “a municipality that uses information and
communication technologies to increase operational efficiency, share information
with the public and improve both the quality of government services and citizen
welfare.” A smart city ecosystem is complex, including systems related to
intelligent traffic management, emergency response technologies and public safety
solutions — the use of cyber-physical systems technology is paramount in
planning, implementing and improving the optimization of smart cities.
Infrastructure
In 2021, the United States’ infrastructure received a C- rating from
the American Society of Civil Engineers’ Report Card for America’s
Infrastructure.
What is the solution to our unstable infrastructure? Improving infrastructure
starts with technology. Using advanced digital technologies like IoT sensors and
video cameras, smart infrastructure empower smart cities to enhance the
experience of citizens, businesses and city operators.
CPS engineers must master cutting-edge technologies in order to upgrade
existing city infrastructure systems — many of which have not been updated in
years. Bringing novel technologies to physical frameworks allows for more
upgrades to critical infrastructure.
Automotive
IoT and CPS technology have made specific advancements in smart car
technologies that can make vehicle transportation safer; “blind-spot monitoring,
lane-departure warning and forward collision warning” are just three features that,
if implemented in all cars in the United States, could reduce the number of crashes
and in turn, save millions of dollars a year.
Agriculture
Sometimes referred to as smart agriculture or digital farming, CPS-related
technology has resulted in advancements that help drive efficiencies on farms:
from drones and satellites that relay images related to plant health to smart sensors
on tractors or harvesters that provide information on soil type and condition.
Sustainability
Society continues to seek more solutions to today’s overwhelming need for
sustainable practices in business, health care and countless other industries, and
CPS technology often makes the advancement of these solutions possible —
solutions such as public electric transport, affordable energy storage, accessible
solar power and clean recycling initiatives are a direct result of IoT and CPS
technology.
Security
The emergence of smart technology has increased security measures in a
variety of ways. “From mobile app development for real-time remote monitoring
to fully fledged intelligent surveillance systems,” CPS technology has empowered
smart security to advance and improve.
Health care
CPS technology has made a multitude of medical advancements possible.
From a smart monitoring system that tracks cancer patients’ response to treatment
to a smart continuous tool that sends data on glucose levels to the wearer’s
smartphone, the field of health care has greatly improved as a result of CPS science
and technology.
Challenges and risks in Cyber-Physical Systems related to Industry 4.0 are:
 Data protection and data security.
 Lack of benefit quantification.
 Lack of prioritization by top management.
 Industrial broadband structure.
 Industrial espionage/sabotage.
 Production outages due to non availability of data.
